[Music]
whoa look out here are nine signs that
your phone has a virus but you know not
that kind smartphones have become
ingrained in our everyday lives
unfortunately along with the ever
creasing number of these gadgets the
number of malware attacks on them has
also grown that's why everybody needs to
know the signs indicating that their
favorite smartphone has caught a virus
but before you learn how to tell that
your gadget is infected or even which
virus it's infected with hit the
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell this way you'll keep
track of all the new videos that appear
on the bright side of life every day
well viruses pose a serious danger to
modern smartphones they can cause such
problems as personal data theft enormous
phone bills and malfunction of different
apps luckily there are ways to recognize
that a virus has infiltrated your device
number one the battery gets drained much
faster than usual now modern smartphones
have a much stronger battery than their
predecessors some particular models can
work for as long as two days on a single
charge if you begin to notice that the
battery of your smartphone depletes
faster than before the device may be
infected with a virus or malware most
viruses don't give away their presence
they function in the background and
that's what makes your battery run out
so quickly on the bright side wink
this can help you detect a virus number
two
you experience disruptions during calls
and it's not your little brother either
if your calls often drop or you have
strange disruptions during conversations
this should ring alarm bells naturally
you may just have problems with
connection or your carrier
bad weather may also affect your phone
calls but if this situation repeats time
after time it might be a virus many of
them have a bad influence on the quality
of your phone calls number three you
notice mysterious outgoing calls you
should be suspicious if you start to
notice outgoing phone calls you didn't
make or text you didn't send if no
friend or family member used your phone
the chances are high that your gadget is
infected with a virus some viruses are
created specifically to send messages
and make calls from a smartphone and
this is how they replicate so if your
friends get spam messages with
suspicious links from you your phone
must have caught a virus number four
there are constant pop-ups now in most
cases constant ads and pop-ups appearing
on the screen are sure signs of a
smartphone virus you probably downloaded
an app with adware on your gadget such
pop-ups are often connected with
suspicious websites if you click on a
link offered by a pop up add a new
portion of viruses may infiltrate your
phone check your latest apps to find out
which one brought along the adware as
soon as you figure it out install it
immediately number five there are
unfamiliar apps on your phone a very
common sign of a virus is the appearance
of unfamiliar apps on your phone you
know for sure that you haven't installed
them but they do exist
it's simple mobile viruses tend to
install other harmful malware on your
device this helps them to work in tandem
and gain strength number six your gadget
overheats
[Music]
infected phones often suffer from
overheating viruses and worms use your
smartphone's resources putting a serious
strain on the gadget as a result it
becomes hot to the touch you should know
that if your device has become too slow
and heats up even when you don't use it
much it's most likely infected with a
virus number 7 your smartphone uses much
more data than usual if your smartphone
is infected with a virus you might spot
a noticeable increase in data usage a
malicious bug can use the data source of
your gadget to send out information and
show pop-up ads luckily you can deal
with this problem Android phones have
settings that can help you manage your
data usage choose Wireless and networks
in the settings menu then tap data usage
and pick set mobile data limit now
adjust the sliders to set your limit 8
there are mysterious charges on your
phone bill hmm an enormous phone bill is
a sure sign that your smart phone has
caught a virus some malware sends out a
huge number of messages until you're
left with a significant phone bill other
viruses act more carefully and send one
or two messages a month to not raise
suspicions in addition they may simply
uninstall themselves after they've
punched a hole in your finances pay
close attention not only to your phone
bills but to all other bills as well
strain subscription fees or mysterious
charges may indicate that one of your
gadgets has gotten infected number 9
there are frequent program crashes
if a game you're playing on your
smartphone subtly crashes for the first
time it's suspicious but if this starts
to occur repeatedly something has
definitely gone wrong
almost all viruses affect the apps you
have on your phone as a result programs
don't load as they should or a crash
unexpectedly another example may be a
missing Bluetooth icon or any other icon
on the screen they may not be displayed
if your smartphone is infected to
prevent the interference of a virus try
to update your apps in a timely manner
these are the most common smartphone
viruses one Trojan this virus often
sticks to an app that looks absolutely
harmless at first glance but as soon as
you download this app the malware
becomes active and infects your phone
after that it can worm your personal
data out of the phone a Trojan virus can
uninstall apps on your gadget or make
your phone send expensive texts even
worse it can completely paralyze your
device two of the most famous types of
Trojan virus are Hummer
and skulls - phishing now not phishing
phishing this malware looks like a
proper login page but as soon as you
enter your account details third parties
get an opportunity to steal your
credentials and use this information for
their purposes
number three worm what you use for
fishing no not really
this virus is typically spread with the
help of text messages the worst part is
that it doesn't need any interaction
with a user to be activated the main
goal of this virus is to spread and
reproduce itself but it can also contain
harmful instructions number 4 adware
also known as spyware you probably won't
know that your gadget has been infected
with this malware since it likes to
pretend to be a legitimate app but as
soon
as your phone is infected this virus
starts to collect your personal
information including your contacts
location browsing history and even your
preferences after that this data is
delivered to a third party which most
often turns out to be an advertising
company five ransomware now this virus
disables a gadget and makes its owner
pay ransom to regain control over their
phone
some modern malware of this type can get
administrator rights and tamper with
your security code or pin you can catch
this virus when you visit insecure or
malicious sites or if you download
unreliable apps and finally especially
watch out for the infamous miley virus
it can sure do a wreckingball on your
device no I just made that up
hey maybe Miley will send us a tweet do
you think yeah I'll let you know now as
you can see even one virus on your smart
phone can cause a whole peck of trouble
that's why it's so important to protect
your gadgets from getting infected here
are a few more tips always update your
smart phone software every new update
contains new bug fixes do not install
apps from unreliable sources on your
Android device choose settings security
find device administration and search
for unknown sources this setting should
be unchecked don't don't don't don't let
your device download any apps until you
enter a password before you decide to
download an app look at the dialog box
where it asks for access to different
options naturally a browser can't work
without internet access and a photo app
will want access to your storage but if
you notice something suspicious among
the apps demands don't install it
install a good antivirus free built-in
programs aren't bad but they aren't
really effective if you use the Internet
on a daily basis
you should have a professional antivirus
don't open or download any email
attachments before you scan them even if
it's an email from your best friend it's
better to use for instance an inbuilt
gmail scanner better safe than sorry
backup your data on a regular basis it
will help to restore your information if
a virus damages or destroys it read what
you see on the screen before you tap it
if a pop up ad appears on your phone the
chances are high that it's the plot of a
third party trying to con you into
giving away your credentials always be
mindful of what you do that's it so how
do you protect your phone from viruses
share your experience in the comment
section below remember to hit the like
button share this video with your
friends and join us on the bright side
of life by subscribing to this channel
you